docs/Installations_and_InitialSetup.md, before:

# Installations and Initial Setup Guide

The following steps are for a system or PC with Ubuntu 20.04 LTS Operating System installed.

## Make sure Ubuntu is up-to-date
```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade
```

## ROS Noetic Installation
Follow the installation steps from the official [ROS Wiki](http://wiki.ros.org/noetic/Installation/Ubuntu)

## MAVROS Installation
```bash
sudo apt-get install ros-noetic-mavros ros-noetic-mavros-extras
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mavlink/mavros/master/mavros/scripts/install_geographiclib_datasets.sh
chmod a+x install_geographiclib_datasets.sh
./install_geographiclib_datasets.sh
```
For ease of use on a desktop computer, please also install RQT
```bash
sudo apt-get install ros-noetic-rqt ros-noetic-rqt-common-plugins ros-noetic-rqt-robot-plugins
```

## Create Catkin Workspace
To create and build a catkin workspace, follow the following commands:
```bash
source /opt/ros/noetic/setup.bash
mkdir -p ~/catkin_ws/src
cd ~/catkin_ws/
catkin_make
source ~/catkin_ws/devel/setup.bash
```

Add the following lines at the end of ~/.bashrc file:
```bash
source /opt/ros/noetic/setup.bash
source ~/catkin_ws/devel/setup.bash
```

## Install ArduPilot and MAVProxy
```bash
cd ~
sudo apt install git
git clone https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot.git
cd ardupilot
```

Install dependencies:
```bash
cd ardupilot
Tools/environment_install/install-prereqs-ubuntu.sh -y
```

Reload profile:
```bash
. ~/.profile
```

Checkout latest copter build:
```bash
git checkout Copter-4.4.4
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

## Install Gazebo Simulator
Setup computer to accept softwaare from osrfoundation.org:
```bash
sudo sh -c 'echo "deb http://packages.osrfoundation.org/gazebo/ubuntu-stable `lsb_release -cs` main" > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/gazebo-stable.list'

wget http://packages.osrfoundation.org/gazebo.key -O - | sudo apt-key add -

sudo apt update
```

Install Gazebo11:
```bash
sudo apt-get install gazebo11 libgazebo11-dev
```

Update and Upgrade:
```bash
sudo apt-get update

sudo apt-get upgrade
```
## Install Gazebo Plugin for ArduPilot
```bash
cd ~
git clone https://github.com/khancyr/ardupilot_gazebo.git
cd ardupilot_gazebo
```

Build and install plugin:
```bash
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make -j4
sudo make install
```

```bash
echo 'source /usr/share/gazebo/setup.sh' >> ~/.bashrc
```

Set paths for models in bashrc:
```bash
echo 'export GAZEBO_MODEL_PATH=~/ardupilot_gazebo/models' >> ~/.bashrc

. ~/.bashrc
```

## Test ArduPilot and Gazebo Installation
In one terminal, run Gazebo:
```bash
gazebo --verbose ~/ardupilot_gazebo/worlds/iris_arducopter_runway.world
```
In second terminal, run ArduPilot SITL:
```bash
cd ~/ardupilot/ArduCopter/
sim_vehicle.py -v ArduCopter -f gazebo-iris --console
```
Note: if you get an error while running this command, simply reboot your computer and try again. 

Note: After all the installation steps are complete, it is recommended to reboot the PC.


## References:
1. [Intelligent Quads Tutorials](https://github.com/Intelligent-Quads/iq_tutorials)
2. [ROS Tutorials](http://wiki.ros.org/ROS/Tutorials)
3. [ArduPilot - Installing ROS](http://wiki.ros.org/ROS/Tutorials)

Commit message:

added commands in documentation to test if SITL is working correctly

docs/Installations_and_InitialSetup.md, after:

# Installations and Initial Setup Guide

The following steps are for a system or PC with Ubuntu 20.04 LTS Operating System installed.

## Make sure Ubuntu is up-to-date
```bash
sudo apt update
sudo apt upgrade
```

## ROS Noetic Installation
Follow the installation steps from the official [ROS Wiki](http://wiki.ros.org/noetic/Installation/Ubuntu)

## MAVROS Installation
```bash
sudo apt-get install ros-noetic-mavros ros-noetic-mavros-extras
wget https://raw.githubusercontent.com/mavlink/mavros/master/mavros/scripts/install_geographiclib_datasets.sh
chmod a+x install_geographiclib_datasets.sh
./install_geographiclib_datasets.sh
```
For ease of use on a desktop computer, please also install RQT
```bash
sudo apt-get install ros-noetic-rqt ros-noetic-rqt-common-plugins ros-noetic-rqt-robot-plugins
```

## Create Catkin Workspace
To create and build a catkin workspace, follow the following commands:
```bash
source /opt/ros/noetic/setup.bash
mkdir -p ~/catkin_ws/src
cd ~/catkin_ws/
catkin_make
source ~/catkin_ws/devel/setup.bash
```

Add the following lines at the end of ~/.bashrc file:
```bash
source /opt/ros/noetic/setup.bash
source ~/catkin_ws/devel/setup.bash
```

## Install ArduPilot and MAVProxy
```bash
cd ~
sudo apt install git
git clone https://github.com/ArduPilot/ardupilot.git
cd ardupilot
```

Install dependencies:
```bash
cd ardupilot
Tools/environment_install/install-prereqs-ubuntu.sh -y
```

Reload profile:
```bash
. ~/.profile
```

Checkout latest copter build:
```bash
git checkout Copter-4.4.4
git submodule update --init --recursive
```

## Install Gazebo Simulator
Setup computer to accept softwaare from osrfoundation.org:
```bash
sudo sh -c 'echo "deb http://packages.osrfoundation.org/gazebo/ubuntu-stable `lsb_release -cs` main" > /etc/apt/sources.list.d/gazebo-stable.list'

wget http://packages.osrfoundation.org/gazebo.key -O - | sudo apt-key add -

sudo apt update
```

Install Gazebo11:
```bash
sudo apt-get install gazebo11 libgazebo11-dev
```

Update and Upgrade:
```bash
sudo apt-get update

sudo apt-get upgrade
```
## Install Gazebo Plugin for ArduPilot
```bash
cd ~
git clone https://github.com/khancyr/ardupilot_gazebo.git
cd ardupilot_gazebo
```

Build and install plugin:
```bash
mkdir build
cd build
cmake ..
make -j4
sudo make install
```

```bash
echo 'source /usr/share/gazebo/setup.sh' >> ~/.bashrc
```

Set paths for models in bashrc:
```bash
echo 'export GAZEBO_MODEL_PATH=~/ardupilot_gazebo/models' >> ~/.bashrc

. ~/.bashrc
```

## Test ArduPilot and Gazebo Installation
In one terminal, run Gazebo:
```bash
gazebo --verbose ~/ardupilot_gazebo/worlds/iris_arducopter_runway.world
```
In second terminal, run ArduPilot SITL:
```bash
cd ~/ardupilot/ArduCopter/
sim_vehicle.py -v ArduCopter -f gazebo-iris --console
```
Note: if you get an error while running this command, simply reboot your computer and try again. 

Note: After all the installation steps are complete, it is recommended to reboot the PC.

Basic commands to test if the drone is working:
mode GUIDED
arm throttle
takeoff 1
mode LAND


## References:
1. [Intelligent Quads Tutorials](https://github.com/Intelligent-Quads/iq_tutorials)
2. [ROS Tutorials](http://wiki.ros.org/ROS/Tutorials)
3. [ArduPilot - Installing ROS](http://wiki.ros.org/ROS/Tutorials)
